Two weeks ago, it was Taylor Swift.
Last week, it was the Big Bang Theory.
This week, we are beginning with the Wizard of Oz.
Now, I hope that most of you are familiar with the movie.
It's a classic.
It was released in 1939, yet year after year, because it is such a good movie, it continues to play over and over again on TV.
It's an engaging story.
a tornado rips through Kansas, and the main character Dorsey and her dog Toto in their house are transported via tornado to the magical land of Oz.
When they get to Oz, they realize that they need to return to Kansas so they begin traveling on the yellow brick road to the Emerald City to meet with the wizard who is going to help them get back to Kansas.
In route, they meet a scarecrow who needs a brain
They meet a tin man who needs a heart, and they meet a cowardly lion who wants courage.
And together they journey along the yellow brick road to the Emerald City to fulfill their longing.
And it's an interesting story, not just the story itself, but all these characters in the story are interesting.
They draw us into the story as viewers, because there's so much about the characters that we can relate with.
Who doesn't at one time in their life or another long for home?
Many people want to be more intelligent.
Some people want to be more compassionate, but I think it's the lion.
I think it's the lion that resonates most with many of us.
Who doesn't want more courage?
All of us want more courage.
So this lion in the story resonates, resonates with you and me because we live lives wanting to be more courageous.
Take a look at this clip.
Here, here.
Go ahead and let us alone.
Oh, scared, huh?
Afraid, huh?
How long can you stay fresh in that can?
Come on, get up and fight your shivering junkyard.
Put your hands up your lopsided bag of hay.
No, that's getting personal, iron.
Yes, get up and teach him a lesson.
Well, what's wrong with you teaching them?
Well, I hardly know them.
Well, I'll get you anyway, Peewee.
What did you do that for?
I didn't buy them.
No, but you tried to.
It's bad enough picking on a straw man, but when you go around picking on poor little dog.
Well, you didn't have to go and hit me, did you?
Is my nose bleeding?
Well, of course not.
My goodness, what a first you're making.
Well, actually, when you go around picking on things weaker than you are,
Why, you're nothing but a great big collar.
You're right.
I have a collar.
I haven't any courage at all.
I even scare myself.
Look at the cycles under my eyes.
I haven't slept in weeks.
Why don't you try counting sheep?
That doesn't do any good.
I'm afraid of them.
Oh, that's too bad.
Don't you think the wizard could help him, too?
I don't see why not.
Why don't you come along with us?
We're on our way to see the wizard now, to get him a heart.
And him a brain.
I'm sure he could give you some courage.
It's funny.
But I hope you caught it.
There's a powerful exchange in there.
The Tin Man says to the lion, why don't you try counting sheep?
And the lion responds, that doesn't do any good.
I'm afraid of that.
When I saw that, yeah, it's funny.
But it reminded me that all of us are afraid of something.
Now, maybe you're not afraid of sheep, but you're likely afraid of something.
Maybe you're afraid of heights like I am, or maybe you're afraid of the dark or thunder, or maybe you're afraid of
enclosed spaces or flying.
Maybe you're afraid of spiders or snakes.
Maybe you're afraid of other people's opinions or rejection or being alone.
Maybe you're afraid of going to the doctor, afraid of what she's going to tell you.
Maybe, maybe you're afraid to die.
You see, all of us are afraid of something.
And fear can be incapacitating.
Fear can paralyze us from doing the things that we should be doing, especially the things that God has called us to do.
Fear can cause us to be hesitant, can cause us to be reserved, to cause us to stay in place.
So like that cowardly lion, we want to have courage.
We want to live a life standing up against our fears.
We want to live a life engaged in what is going on around us.
We want to live a life doing the things that God has called us to do.
We want to live courageously.
Do you want to live courageously?
Do you want to live a life that is full of courage?
Do you want to overcome your fears?
Of course you do.
We all do.
We all want to live a life that is more courageous.
The good news is that this morning God, through the Apostle John, tells us exactly how to do that.
So let's see what John has to say to us this morning to help us live a life that is full of courage.
So if you would, would you take your Bible
and would you turn to 1 John 4, 1 John 4?
If you do not have a Bible, there's one in the rock in front of you, grab that Bible, open it up to page 988, and there you will find the verses that we're going to be looking at this morning.
Now, I need to warn you right at the front before we get started that John's prescription is probably not what you would expect.
It's interesting.
Scripture doesn't tell us to conquer fear through strength or even through spiritual performance.
It doesn't tell us to repress it, to ignore it, or even fake our way through it.
John isn't going to tell us to read a book or to go to counseling or to face our fears.
John has something much more radical to tell us this morning.
This morning, John
tells us that perfect love casts out or perfect love drives out fear.
That means that the key to courage isn't more power.
It's not more control.
It's not even more clarity.
The key to courage is love.
over these past few weeks, we've been looking at the truth, at the fact, at the reality that God is love.
Not just that God is loving, but that God Himself is love.
And this morning, we're gonna dig a little deeper into what that means for you and for me in regard to driving out fear.
And what we learn about God's love is that perfect love
drives out fear.
We're in the same verses that we've been in the past few weeks.
This morning, we're going to focus on verses 15 through 19.
So follow along, as I read, 1 John 4, beginning in verse 15.
If anyone acknowledges that Jesus is the Son of God, God lives in them and they in God.
And so we know and rely on the love of God and the love God has for us.
God is love.
Whoever lives in love lives in God and God in them.
This is how love is made complete among us so that we will have confidence on the day of judgment.
In this world, we are like Jesus.
There is no fear in love, but perfect love drives out fear because fear has to do with punishment.
The one who fears is not made perfect in love.
We love because he first loved us.
Now we're gonna dig deeper into these verses and as we dig deeper into these verses, I want you to see that it is the love of God and our love for others that drives out fear.
If you want to live courageously, you must live in, you must rely upon God's love for you and you must live a life loving others.
Living in the love of God and loving others
drives out fear.
So first, let's look at how God's love drives out fear.
Look again at verse 15.
If anyone acknowledges that Jesus is the Son of God, God lives in them and they in God.
Now you see that word acknowledges?
Underline that.
It's a key word in our passage and in verse 15.
This is necessary
to living fully in the love of God.
If you do not acknowledge Jesus, you will not live fully in the love of God.
In the original language, this word acknowledges, or some of your translations may say confesses, was a legal term.
It meant to say the same, to agree with or to consent.
It was a legal term
that was used to affirm or to agree with the statement of another, like confessing guilt before a judge or a jury.
It came to be used in a similar way in Scripture to acknowledge or to confess sin is to say the same.
It's to agree with God about our sin and about our guilt.
It's also used to acknowledge
or confess that Jesus is the Son of God.
It's saying the same thing as God says about His Son, that He is truly the Son of God.
This acknowledgement or this confession is saying the same thing about our sin and about Jesus.
So when we acknowledge
or confess Jesus as Savior and Lord.
Do you see it?
Look what it says.
God lives in them and they and God.
And then look at verse 16.
And so we know and rely on the love God has for us.
And God is love.
And God comes to live inside of us and his love comes to live in us.
And so his love resides in us to know God
is to know love.
So for all of us who acknowledge Jesus, God's love abides in us.
So we no longer have to be afraid.
And there should be no fear of punishment.
That's verse 17.
Yes, we sin.
And yes,
there is guilt from that sin.
But because we have acknowledged or confessed Jesus and turned from our sin, put our faith in Him, we're forgiven.
So now when God our heavenly Father looks at us, He no longer sees our sin.
He now looks at us and He sees the righteousness of Jesus Christ.
He sees Jesus and not us.
means that we are covered by the love of God, which brings us to verse 18.
Look what it says.
There is no fear in love, but perfect love drives out fear because fear has to do with punishment.
The one who fears is not made perfect in love.
God is love, and that perfect love drives out fear.
We sometimes assume
that this passage is primarily about our ability to love better.
But it's ultimately about the love that God has for us.
We've seen this all throughout this chapter.
Earlier in chapter four, look back at verse 10.
Verse 10 says, this is love, not that we loved God, but that He loved us.
Perfect love does not originate in you or me.
Perfect love originates
In God, the word perfect here, it means full, mature, whole, complete.
It's a perfect love.
It's about what it gives, not what it gets.
It's the kind of love that doesn't flinch when it sees your mess, the kind of love that already knows your weaknesses and has already made provision for them.
God's perfect love is not shallow.
It's not performative.
It's not withdrawn when you fail.
It does not punish you for being human.
It does not abandon you when you struggle.
You see, God's perfect love is rooted in the finished work of Jesus Christ.
And it comes to complete what fear has broken.
And when you and I, when we start living in that love, when we rely on that love,
fear will no longer run the show.
Because we are experiencing the fullness of God's love in our lives.
God loves us.
So there is no reason to be afraid of anything.
So when fear comes whispering, I know you've had this.
I know in your life fear has come whispering and you have heard fear say to you, you're not safe.
Or you're going to be rejected.
or you're going to be judged.
Love answers back.
God answers back.
No, that's not the case.
You are mine.
And there is no reason to fear because of the love that I have for you.
I'd like you to think about it this way.
When you're at work and your boss
thinks you're doing a good job and your boss likes you.
It really doesn't matter what your coworkers think doesn't.
Because your boss thinks you're great at home.
If your wife thinks you're the best.
I got a thumbs up.
If your wife thinks you're the best, again, it really doesn't matter what other people think.
And when the creator of the universe loves you with a perfect love, there is absolutely nothing, absolutely nothing that you should be afraid of.
Now I know this is hard.
I know this is hard for some of you because maybe you grew up with an overly strict father.
Or you learned a lot of incorrect legalistic teachings about God.
But let me tell you,
The God of the Bible is a God who is full of a perfect love for you.
He loves you from the top of your head to the bottom of your toes.
He loves you inside and out.
And because of his perfect love for you, there is nothing for you or I to be afraid of.
Now, yes, he is holy.
And yes, he disciplines his children, but he doesn't discipline his children out of a position of judgment or hate or angst.
He comes from a position of love where he is looking to right our wrong and put us back on the right path.
It's why Paul is able to write in Romans 8 chapter 1, which may be the best verse in all of the Bible.
Paul writes this.
He writes, therefore,
There is now, not some, not a little.
Therefore, there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus.
If you have acknowledged Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, there is no condemnation.
And you and I are able to live fully and completely in the perfect love of God which drives out fear.
There's a story in John's gospel that he recounts.
It's one of my favorite stories in all of the Bible.
There is a woman who is caught in adultery.
And her guilt doesn't seem to be questioned.
She is caught in adultery.
And there's a group of men that bring her to Jesus.
Now at the time, Jesus is talking and he's teaching a large crowd.
And this group of men, they bring this woman to Jesus and they kind of throw her at his feet and they're like,
Hey, what are you gonna do about this?
This woman committed adultery.
Now, can we think about what the woman was feeling at that time?
Can you think about the humiliation?
How about the fear?
The Mosaic law said that she should be stoned for that sin.
But Jesus, Jesus looks at the crowd.
He looks at the men and he bends down.
And he starts writing in the sand.
And then he looks up at everyone and he says, you without sin.
can throw the first down.
And then he looks back down.
And he's writing.
A couple of minutes later, still kneeling, he says to the woman, where are they?
You see, they had all left.
He asked, did any of them condemn you?
She said, no one, sir.
And he said, neither do I.
Go and send Omar.
That is the perfect love of God.
And notice, God in human flesh stayed kneeling
while he spoke to the woman.
He didn't rise up and stand up over her.
He stayed kneeling and he's like, I don't condemn you either.
Go and sin no more.
That is the perfect love of God.
That's how he loves you.
Therefore,
there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus.
And because He loves you with that deep and great love, there is no reason to be afraid of anything.
Now, it seems like we could stop here.
but there is a second part of driving out fear in our lives.
And we don't want to miss it.
So take your Bible and turn or look at verse 17.
Verse 17 says, this is how love is made complete among us so that we will have confidence on the day of judgment.
In this world, we are like Jesus.
underline that phrase.
What does it mean to be like Jesus?
It means that in this sinful world that we live in, we will talk like Jesus talked, we will walk like Jesus walked, we will live like Jesus lived, and we will love as Jesus loves.
That's why John writes verse 19.
We love because He first loved us, because Jesus loves us, because we experience this perfect love from God the Father.
The call on our lives is to go out and love others just like Jesus loved them.
And the only way that you can love an unlovely person is if the love of God, if God Himself is in you.
Remember.
God is love and God loves you, but this love is not for your exclusive benefit.
It's not just for you.
This love that God has for you is meant for you to share with the people that God brings into your life.
It is meant to share with people that you come in contact with day after day, whether they are lovely or whether they are unlovely.
God loves you so that like Jesus, you can love others.
And when you love others in the way that God loves you, you will not fear.
It is how love works.
The first aspect of driving out fear is relying upon and living in the fullness
of God's love, the second aspect or instruction is recognizing that when I use God's perfect love and love other people that are in my life, that too is going to drive out fear.
Let's think about how this works.
How many of you are parents?
If you're a parent, raise your hand.
Great.
If you're not a parent, the illustration will make sense to you, so please hang on.
If you're a parent, that means right now you have a young child, or at one point in time, you had a young child.
Now, when your child was young, did your child ever get sick?
Let's engage with each other.
It helps me.
Thank you.
Did your child ever get sick?
And when your child got sick, maybe it was a cold, maybe the flu, maybe COVID, maybe it was some more serious infectious disease.
When your child got sick, did you care for her?
Yes, you cared for her.
And while you were caring for her, did it ever cross your mind that you were going to get sick?
Did you even care whether you got sick with what they had?
No, probably not.
Why?
Because your perfect love for your child drove out that fear.
It was a number of years ago, we were celebrating Christmas.
We were at Jen's family's house.
And my oldest son, Jeff, I think he was about eight at the time, is the end of the day and he comes up to me and he's like, Dad, I'm not really feeling well.
Well, he was right because no sooner did he get those words out than he threw up all over the place.
And over me.
So I like, like we jump into action, we kind of clean up all the throw up, but it's just not, it's just not that one, like if you're a parent, you know this, like eight year olds don't just throw up once.
Like he threw up all night.
So Jen and I, Jeff and I spent the night in the family room.
He was throwing up.
I was cleaning up and just holding on and loving it.
And there wasn't one time during that night that I was concerned that I was going to get whatever he had.
Why?
Because I love him.
And the love that I have for my son drove out that fear.
If you are a parent, you know exactly what I'm talking about.
But here is the thing in the instruction.
Now I know what you're saying.
You're saying you're in your mind with time.
That's easy.
He's your son.
Of course you love him.
But if we are to be like Jesus, and we are to love others like Jesus loves other people, our love is not just limited to our immediate family members.
We are called to love everyone that God brings into our path.
And even people that He doesn't bring into our path, that we go out and find.
We are called not to love just the lovely.
We are called to love the unlovely.
And when you do the beautiful thing is that that love will drive out any fear that you have.
But sometimes we think that it's not possible.
But I will tell you, it was possible in the early church
in the early 4th century, in the city of Caesarea, following a war and famine, the city was struck by the plague.
The plague comes and people all throughout the city start dying, so the wealthy people, they leave the city for the safety of the countryside.
Well, during the Exodus, there is one group of people who remains in Caesarea.
Any idea who the people who remained in Caesarea were?
The Christians.
The Christians stayed in Caesarea to care for those who were dying and sick.
Eusebius, the bishop of Caesarea, and an ancient historian records it this way.
Look what he writes.
All day long, some of them, the Christians, tended to the dying and to their burial.
Countless numbers with no one to care for them.
Others gathered together from all parts of the city, a multitude
of those withered from famine and distributed bread to them all."
Eusebius goes on to state that because of their love and compassion in the midst of the plague, quote, the Christian's deeds were on everyone's lips and they glorified the God of the Christians.
These
Early Christians' love for others drove out their fear of the plague.
It drove out their fear of dying and their love led other people to glorify God.
I am wondering if historians will write the same thing about us.
I'm not so sure they will.
Now I know, I know there are some of you who love others with the perfect love of God.
You are out, you are engaging, you are engaging others with a sacrificial love that points people to Jesus, that causes them to glorify God.
And as a result of your love for others, you do not live in fear.
You live a life that is full of courage.
But for some,
And for much of the evangelical church, I think many are focused almost exclusively on self-interest and are not demonstrating sacrificial love to people around them.
It happens in the church.
Think about the divide that we have in sometimes over worship.
Instead, love would say, I'm more concerned with the preference of the person next to me than I am with my own preference.
Think about minor, minor theological disputes.
Love would call us to sit down and discuss and talk through and resolve those disputes.
Think about those who are trying to create a circle of homogeneity
where love would include others in our midst.
Remember, it is perfect love that casts out fear.
And when you live with the self-focus and self-interest and a selfishness, the fear is just going to continue to grow inside of you.
And I think I may be even more concerned with what is happening when we engage with those outside the church.
Question for you.
Do people know you more for your political opinions or for the fact that you're a follower of Jesus?
Do you talk more about your favorite political leader or about Jesus?
Does your hat have a political slogan on it?
Or does it have a patch that says, Jesus loves you and so do I.
All of that stuff is just going to make you more afraid.
You follow that you will live in fear.
The encouragement for us this morning
is when you experience the perfect love of God, when you rely upon, when you live in it, and then you share that perfect love with your neighbor, with the people that God has brought into your life, with people that you go out and find.
When you share that perfect love with others, the fear go away, and you can live courageously for Jesus Christ.
That is what God has called us to.
Do you?
One more time.
Do you want to live a courageous life?
Do you want to live a life full of courage?
Yes.
Do you want to be afraid?
No.
The encouragement this morning is live in the perfect love of God.
Relie upon it.
Know that He loves you from the top of your head to the tip of your toes inside and out.
and then share it.
Share that perfect love with all of those around you and watch your fears dissipate and your courage grow.
I think most of us resonate with the cowardly lion because we all want more courage.
The good news this morning is you don't have to walk a yellow brick road to the Emerald City to meet with the wizard.
God Himself loves you.
So there is nothing to be afraid of.
And together we can journey, we can live this life encouraging each other to love other people.
So along the journey, our fears
will become less and less.
And people will glorify God in heaven.
Amen.